---
title: "Teaching Assistant 2014-2017 - Networked Games, Networked AI, Mobile Games"
collection: teaching
type: "Graduate course"
permalink: /teaching/2014-2017-teaching
institution: "University of Southern California, Department of Computer Science"
venue: "University of Southern California, Department of Computer Science"
date: 2014-08-21
location: "Los Angeles, California, USA"
excerpt: "This is the time period where I practiced teaching specialized topics to a general audience."
---

During the academic year of 2014-2017, I was the teaching assistant for Networked Games, Networked AI, and Mobile Games.
* 2014 Fall CSCI 523 Networked Games with Michael Zyda
* 2014 Fall CSCI 526 Mobile Games with Scott Easley
* 2015 Spring CSCI 524 Networked AI with Michael Zyda
* 2015 Spring CSCI 526 Mobile Games with Scott Easley
* 2015 Fall CSCI 523 Networked Games with Michael Zyda
* 2015 Fall CSCI 526 Mobile Games with Michael Zyda
* 2016 Spring CSCI 526 Mobile Games with Michael Zyda
* 2016 Spring CSCI 524 Networked AI with Michael Zyda
* 2016 Fall CSCI 523 Networked Games with Michael Zyda
* 2016 Fall CSCI 526 Mobile Games with Michael Zyda
* 2017 Spring CSCI 526 Mobile Games with Michael Zyda
* 2017 Spring CSCI 524 Networked AI with Michael Zyda

# About the Class
## CSCI 523
"Design and implementation of networked games, from the origins of the supporting technologies in distributed systems, visual simulations, networked virtual environments, and shipped games."

## CSCI 524
"Networked game communication architectures, protocol development, architecting networked game AI clients/services. Character following, knowledge representation and reasoning, dynamic play strategies, search, learning, and planning."

Instructor for the class CSCI 523 and CSCI 524 was [Michael Zyda](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mikezyda/), my PhD Advisor.

CSCI 523 serves as the introductory project class to making a networked game. CSCI 524 is intended to be a follow-up to CSCI 523, allowing students additional time to work on and polish their networked game by introducing Networked AI.

## CSCI 526 Advanced Mobile Devices and Game Consoles
"Explore the complex engineering process required to design and build a real-time graphics engine to support physical realism on mobile devices."

Instructors for the class CSCI 526 were [Michael Zyda](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mikezyda/) or [Scott Easley](https://www.linkedin.com/in/scott-easley-b209771/). More commonly, it is referred to as Mobile Games class.

# My Roles
In contrast to my previous two years when I dedicated all my time to being a Teaching Assistant for the capstone course Advanced Game Projects, I took a more reasonable approach as I worked on my PhD. 

The students are also different. The majority of the students taking Advanced Game Projects are in computer science with the games concentration or in interactive media & games. In other words, students looking to turn game development into their career and are familiar with the subject area.
Students for the classes I was teaching at this time are general computer science students who may be passionate about games but otherwise lack experience. They could also be someone with no interest or experience, but simply taking the class to graduate.

